FRANKDOC.md, before:

# Frank!Doc user manual for contributors

## Code documentation
The Frank!Doc provides reference information for Frank developers as explained in [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md). It is produced by a doclet that assembles the Frank!Doc from the Java sources. You can control the Frank!Doc using custom JavaDoc tags and using Frank!Doc-related Java annotations. These annotations and tags are summarized in the table below:

| JavaDoc Tag           | Java annotation    | Appears on                              | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|-----------------------|--------------------|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                       | `@FrankDocGroup`   | Class or interface                      | Define group as shown in top-left of webapp.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `@ff.parameters`      |                    | Class                                   | Describes how parameters (Frank config `<Param>`) are used.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `@ff.parameter`       |                    | Class                                   | Describes the meaning of a specific parameter. First argument is name of parameter. Second argument is description of that parameter.                                                                                                                                                              |
|                       | `@Forward`         | Class                                   | Describes a forward (e.g. `success`, `failure`). First argument is name of forward. Second argument is description.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `@ff.default`         | `@Default`         | Attribute setter                        | Describes default value.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `@ff.ref`             | `@ReferTo`         | Attribute setter                        | References another Java method from which the description and the default value should be obtained. The reference can give only the class name that has the method, or in case of the JavaDoc tag the class name and the method name separated by a dot. Always use the full class name.           |
| `@ff.protected`       | `@Protected`       | Attribute setter, child setter or class | Suppresses declaration and inheritance of attribute, child or element. Annotation is inherited.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `@ff.excludeFromType` | `@ExcludeFromType` | Class                                   | Omit as element of specific Frank!Doc types (e.g. ITransactionalStorage). Annotation is inherited.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `@ff.mandatory`       | `@Mandatory`       | Attribute or child setter               | Makes attribute or child mandatory in Frank config.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `@ff.optional`        | `@Optional`        | Attribute or child setter               | Undoes inherited `@ff.mandatory`, making the attribute or child optional even if it overrides a mandatory attribute or child.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `@ff.defaultElement`  |                    | Child setter                            | Set default value of `className` attribute in XSD syntax 1 element.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                       | `@EnumLabel`       | Enum constant                           | Set representation required in Frank configs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `@ff.reintroduce`     | `@Reintroduce`     | Attribute or child setter               | Used to change the order of config children or attributes; see Frank!Doc's README file for details.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| -                     | `@Label`           | Java Annotation                         | When the target annotation is placed on a Java class, a label is added in the Frank!Doc webapp. The value of the label is the `value()` field of the target annotation. The name of the label comes from the `@Label` annotation within the definition of the target annotation, attribute `name`. |
| -                     | `@Unsafe`          | Attribute setter or child setter        | Marks the attribute as unsafe. This is used to warn developers against using this attribute in a production environment.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `{@inheritDoc}`       |                    | Attribute setter, child setter or class | Inherits documentation from a parent class or attribute, if it exists. Additional documentation can be added to supplement the documentation provided by the parent.                                                                                                                               |

**Annotation @FrankDocGroup, on interface:**  When a Java class implements an interface that has a `@FrankDocGroup` annotation, then the class is put in the group non-exclusively. A class can belong to multiple groups when it implements multiple interfaces with different groups.

**Annotation @FrankDocGroup, on class:** When a class has a `@FrankDocGroup` annotation, then the class only belongs to that group. `@FrankDocGroup` annotations on classes are inherited by descendant classes, so descendant classes are also in the specified group exclusively.

**@ff.mandatory and @Mandatory:** If you give the JavaDoc tag the value `ignoreInCompatibilityMode`, the attribute or config child will not be mandatory in `FrankConfig-compatibility.xsd`. This behavior may be useful for backward compatibility. The annotation has a Boolean field `ignoreInCompatibilityMode` that does the same.

**@ff.protected and @Protected:** If a config child setter has a non-interface Java class as its argument and if that class has or inherits this annotation, then no config child is created.

## Available properties
The default properties of the framework can be found in `AppConstants.properties`. This file has the purpose to document all available properties, which can be used within the framework. 
The properties file follows a specific format, so it can be scraped to be used as a datasource for the Frank!Doc.

An `!` can be used to make comments in the properties file. These lines have no special meaning and purely exist for documentation purposes.

`####` denotes the start and end of a group of properties. This group can have an optional name.

A property can have a description, which is defined above the property starting with a `##`. A property can have a value (which is the default value).
It can also start with a `#` to document it, but to not include it as a property in the application.
Flags (`[Deprecated]` and `[Generated]`) can be added to convey additional metadata. A deprecated property should not be used anymore, because it can be removed in future version and generated properties are generated by the framework and should thus be treated as readonly.
```properties
#### Name of group

## Documentation of the property
my.property=10

## Documentation of
## the property
#another.property

## [Deprecated] Use another.property instead!
deprecated.property=false

## [Deprecated] [Generated] The name of the adapter
adapter.name

####

#### Another group

grouptwo.property=1

####
```

Commit message:

Add documentation and lowered access modifiers where possible (#8757)

FRANKDOC.md, after:

# Frank!Doc user manual for contributors

## Code documentation
The Frank!Doc provides reference information for Frank developers as explained in [CONTRIBUTING.md](./CONTRIBUTING.md). It is produced by a doclet that assembles the Frank!Doc from the Java sources. You can control the Frank!Doc using custom JavaDoc tags and using Frank!Doc-related Java annotations. These annotations and tags are summarized in the table below:

| JavaDoc Tag           | Java annotation    | Appears on                              | Function                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
|-----------------------|--------------------|-----------------------------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|                       | `@FrankDocGroup`   | Class or interface                      | Define group as shown in top-left of webapp.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| `@ff.parameters`      |                    | Class                                   | Describes how parameters (Frank config `<Param>`) are used.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| `@ff.parameter`       |                    | Class                                   | Describes the meaning of a specific parameter. First argument is name of parameter. Second argument is description of that parameter.                                                                                                                                                              |
|                       | `@Forward`         | Class                                   | Describes a forward (e.g. `success`, `failure`). First argument is name of forward. Second argument is description.                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `@ff.default`         | `@Default`         | Attribute setter                        | Describes default value.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `@ff.ref`             | `@ReferTo`         | Attribute setter                        | References another Java method from which the description and the default value should be obtained. The reference can give only the class name that has the method, or in case of the JavaDoc tag the class name and the method name separated by a dot. Always use the full class name.           |
| `@ff.protected`       | `@Protected`       | Attribute setter, child setter or class | Suppresses declaration and inheritance of attribute, child or element. Annotation is inherited.                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| `@ff.excludeFromType` | `@ExcludeFromType` | Class                                   | Omit as element of specific Frank!Doc types (e.g. ITransactionalStorage). Annotation is inherited.                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| `@ff.mandatory`       | `@Mandatory`       | Attribute or child setter               | Makes attribute or child mandatory in Frank config.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `@ff.optional`        | `@Optional`        | Attribute or child setter               | Undoes inherited `@ff.mandatory`, making the attribute or child optional even if it overrides a mandatory attribute or child.                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `@ff.defaultElement`  |                    | Child setter                            | Set default value of `className` attribute in XSD syntax 1 element.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                       | `@EnumLabel`       | Enum constant                           | Set representation required in Frank configs.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| `@ff.reintroduce`     | `@Reintroduce`     | Attribute or child setter               | Used to change the order of config children or attributes; see Frank!Doc's README file for details.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| -                     | `@Label`           | Java Annotation                         | When the target annotation is placed on a Java class, a label is added in the Frank!Doc webapp. The value of the label is the `value()` field of the target annotation. The name of the label comes from the `@Label` annotation within the definition of the target annotation, attribute `name`. |
| -                     | `@Unsafe`          | Attribute setter or child setter        | Marks the attribute as unsafe. This is used to warn developers against using this attribute in a production environment.                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `{@inheritDoc}`       |                    | Attribute setter, child setter or class | Inherits documentation from a parent class or attribute, if it exists. Additional documentation can be added to supplement the documentation provided by the parent.                                                                                                                               |
| `{@ff.info}`          |                    | Class                                   | Provide a text that will be rendered as an 'info' block in the frank doc                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| `{@ff.tip}`           |                    | Class                                   | Provide a text that will be rendered as a 'tip' block in the frank doc                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| `{@ff.warning}`       |                    | Class                                   | Provide a text that will be rendered as a 'warning' block in the frank doc                                                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| `{@ff.danger}`        |                    | Class                                   | Provide a text that will be rendered as a 'danger' block in the frank doc                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |

**Annotation @FrankDocGroup, on interface:**  When a Java class implements an interface that has a `@FrankDocGroup` annotation, then the class is put in the group non-exclusively. A class can belong to multiple groups when it implements multiple interfaces with different groups.

**Annotation @FrankDocGroup, on class:** When a class has a `@FrankDocGroup` annotation, then the class only belongs to that group. `@FrankDocGroup` annotations on classes are inherited by descendant classes, so descendant classes are also in the specified group exclusively.

**@ff.mandatory and @Mandatory:** If you give the JavaDoc tag the value `ignoreInCompatibilityMode`, the attribute or config child will not be mandatory in `FrankConfig-compatibility.xsd`. This behavior may be useful for backward compatibility. The annotation has a Boolean field `ignoreInCompatibilityMode` that does the same.

**@ff.protected and @Protected:** If a config child setter has a non-interface Java class as its argument and if that class has or inherits this annotation, then no config child is created.

## Formatting text
See the ["Documentation" section in AdditionalCodingGuidelines.md](AdditionalCodingGuidelines.md#documentation) for the formatting of text in JavaDoc.

## Available properties
The default properties of the framework can be found in `AppConstants.properties`. This file has the purpose to document all available properties, which can be used within the framework. 
The properties file follows a specific format, so it can be scraped to be used as a datasource for the Frank!Doc.

An `!` can be used to make comments in the properties file. These lines have no special meaning and purely exist for documentation purposes.

`####` denotes the start and end of a group of properties. This group can have an optional name.

A property can have a description, which is defined above the property starting with a `##`. A property can have a value (which is the default value).
It can also start with a `#` to document it, but to not include it as a property in the application.
Flags (`[Deprecated]` and `[Generated]`) can be added to convey additional metadata. A deprecated property should not be used anymore, because it can be removed in future version and generated properties are generated by the framework and should thus be treated as readonly.
```properties
#### Name of group

## Documentation of the property
my.property=10

## Documentation of
## the property
#another.property

## [Deprecated] Use another.property instead!
deprecated.property=false

## [Deprecated] [Generated] The name of the adapter
adapter.name

####

#### Another group

grouptwo.property=1

####
```
